[Music]
The Game Boy Color was pretty well known
for its lineup of incredible
platformers, but one that doesn't get
talked about that often has to be Lucky
Luke, which is based on a series of
comics that the game loosely follows.
There's not much in terms of story and
instead the main focus is the gameplay.
That's a fair mix of platforming, some
light puzzles, and mini games that make
up the adventure. As you would expect,
it's all split into a range of different
levels with you having the standard run
and jump mechanics, as well as being
able to fend off enemies with your gun.
What makes the platforming a bit more
engaging, though, is Luke's ability to
grab onto ledges and ropes, adding a
nice amount of verticality to each
stage, as well as the level design
itself, ensuring that no two levels ever
feel the same. One minute you'll be
dodging dynamite in a minecart and the
next you'll be chasing down a train on
horseback. And it's this variety of
challenge that really helps Lucky Luke
succeed. As I've already mentioned,
apart from the general platforming, the
range of mini games on offer serve to
mix up the gameplay quite well. And the
shooting gallery is easily the most
enjoyable of the lot. Now, for a Game
Boy Color game, Lucky Luke is a real
visual standout with all of the sprites
being extremely detailed and possessing
a nice amount of animations that bring
all of the action to life on the small
screen. The same can be said for the
environments from dusty towns to
sprawling canyons that make excellent
use of the systems color palette and add
plenty of style to the levels that make
up the game. All in all, if you're
looking for a new platformer to jump
into on the Game Boy Color, then Lucky
Luke is worth a try.
[Music]
Ever since the first game released on
the Sega Saturn and PlayStation, the
Grandia series has become a sort of
unsung hero of the RPG genre and a
spin-off would eventually hit the Game
Boy Color known as Parallel Trippers
that hardly ever gets the recognition it
deserves. It follows Yui, a young
Japanese boy who along with his friends
is mysteriously transported from modern
Japan to an alternate vision of the
grandio world after encountering a
strange shooting star in the sky. Your
goal is to find various mysterious keys
that hold the answer to getting home.
And while the story isn't as intricate
or grand as the mainline entries,
there's still plenty here to enjoy with
many returning characters and fan
service that make it an absolute must
for anyone familiar with the series.
When it comes to gameplay, it's your
standard top-down RPG where you've got
to explore a world filled with NPCs,
puzzles, and enemies with combat being
the true star of the show. It's a rather
creative departure from the original's
real-time turn-based hybrid approach and
instead sees everything playing out from
a firstperson perspective with the use
of cards being at the center of each and
every action you can take. Throughout
the game, you've got to build a deck of
these cards with the IP gauge making a
return that determines the turn order of
your party and adds a strategic layer as
you decide which cards to play and when.
With nearly 30 different characters to
play as, each with their own unique
abilities and traits, there's a lot to
wrap your head around, which results in
a huge amount of options when it comes
to combat, making it one of the most
engaging systems that you'll find on the
Game Boy Color. So, if you're like me
and have a fondness for old school RPGs,
then grandio parallel trippers is
something you'll not want to miss.
The Game Boy Color wasn't really known
for its abundance of shooters, but it
did receive a version of Gala that took
the classic game and updated it with a
fresh twist on the tried and tested
formula. You take up the fight as a lone
pilot, the last survivor of a fleet that
was destroyed by an alien force. And
your mission is to battle through wave
after wave of insect-l like ships, all
in the hopes of bringing them down and
saving the Earth from destruction. The
game is made up of nine different
levels, each of which is divided into
four waves of enemies to defeat. There
are several types of these enemies that
each have their own tactics that they
try to bring you down with, and they're
all represented by different colors.
There are those that form patterns and
others that require several hits in
order to destroy, adding a bit of
challenge to the otherwise simple
shooting mechanics. As with most
shooters, you've got a few power-ups to
collect along the way, which are dropped
by fallen enemies that include extra
lives, enhanced weapons, and temporary
shields that help even the odds against
the often chaotic amount of targets that
fill the screen. Collecting them can be
quite tricky, though, and it ends up
feeling like a bit of risk versus reward
as they often appear midwave and require
you to carefully weave in and out to
retrieve them. It all ends up being a
solid reimagining of the classic arcade
shooter. And for anyone who's played the
series before, you'll easily be able to
jump in and enjoy what Destination Earth
has to offer. It's just a bit of a shame
that there's not much in terms of
variety when it comes to its game modes
or longevity. But if what you're looking
for is something to just simply play
whilst you're on the go, then it's for
sure worth a pickup.
Amada Effects is a combat racer that's
loosely based on the Dreamcast original,
which all revolves around an
intergalactic tournament that sees six
alien species coming together to compete
in this highstakes competition to prove
their dominance over each other. As with
a lot of racing games, you've got a few
different modes to jump into with the
singleplayer campaign being the main
draw where you can get to grips with the
advantages that each alien race brings
to the table. One is better when it
comes to control, whereas the others may
offer more power or hit points, making
it a good idea to try each of them out
and experiment with everything that they
have to offer. When it comes to the
racing itself, it's all displayed from a
top- down viewpoint, with each of the
tracks being filled with natural hazards
such as lava pits, slippery surfaces,
and jumps as you and three rivals race
to the finish line. It's not all about
simply being the fastest, though, as
combat soon becomes a huge part of the
game with each vehicle having a range of
different weapons from lasers to bombs
and traps with various power-ups also
being scattered across the track that
can enhance your weapons or give you a
short boost, making them all critical to
your success. At the end of each series
of races, the combat aspect of the game
takes center stage as you're tasked with
taking on a boss where you've got to
slowly chip away at its health and
strategically stay out of harm's way.
That all comes together to add a pretty
unique twist on the usual racing
formula. While it may not outshine other
racers on the system, its innovative
approach is something that it can
proudly call its own. And even though
the top- down view is a bit restrictive,
it's nothing that ruins an otherwise
impressive
racer. As a fan of the original comics,
Spawn on the Game Boy Color is something
that I always wanted to try out. And
after playing it, it ended up being
quite a decent platformer that stays
true to the many aspects which make the
property so beloved. For those not
familiar with the story, you play as Al
Simmons, a special agent who was
betrayed and left for dead, only to be
resurrected at Spawn after making a pact
with a demon. What follows is his
journey for revenge, which is set across
seven different levels, taking you from
the streets of New York to the depths of
hell itself. And gameplay-wise, it's
your standard action platformer that
sees you having command of spawns
different abilities where you've got a
basic punch, a dive kick, as well as a
chain attack that eats away at your
health every time you use it. So, it's a
good idea to save it for when you're in
a tight spot. You can also find various
guns throughout the levels, which give
you an extra edge against the enemies,
but ammo is extremely limited, so again,
it's a good idea to save it. What helps
mix up the gameplay though is that apart
from the usual sides scrolling levels,
you'll often be thrown into bike chases
that see you having to ram thugs and
shoot cars that add a decent amount of
diversity to the game setup. In terms of
replay-ability, there's a few different
difficulty settings that make going
through it again once you've finished
all the more enticing. And with plenty
of collectibles and secrets to uncover
across the stages, there's plenty of
incentives for multiple playthroughs.
It's not without its flaws, though, as
at times the enemy placement can feel a
bit unforgiving. But the game strengths
outweigh this issue. And overall, for
fans of spawn or just platformers in
general, this is definitely a game that
will end up being worth your
time. Toky is a puzzle platformer and is
a spin-off of a game that originally
released on the PC that throws you into
the role of a cute baby chicken whose
siblings have all been kidnapped, and
it's up to you to find them and bring
them home. With this premise, it may
sound like a kids game, but behind this
simple setup lies one of the Game Boy's
most intricate and challenging games.
You've got to guide Tori through 60
levels across four different worlds,
collecting as many eggs as you can, with
each of the stages acting like a
self-contained puzzle where you're free
to navigate it by walking and jumping or
using one of the many different items
you're given to help you out. These
items will instantly be familiar to
anyone who's played Lemmings with each
of them giving you different options to
reach and save each egg throughout the
level. You've got the ability to build
bridges or teleport through walls and
floors, as well as a hoover that can
suck up one of the many different
enemies that are out to stop you in your
tracks. The gameplay is extremely
accessible but deceptively challenging
with the puzzles starting out quite easy
and slowly ramping up in their
difficulty. This curve is what makes the
game so engaging and with each new world
introducing new tools to help you and
obstacles to overcome. It manages to
remain quite varied throughout its
runtime. And with plenty of hidden
secrets and special challenges, there's
a lot to do apart from just simply
clearing each stage. Toki ends up being
a perfect game to pick up and play in
short bursts. So, if you're up for the
challenge, Toki Tori will make a welcome
addition to your Game Boy collection.
Pocket Bomber Man was yet another
re-release for the Game Boy Color that
took the original game and updated it
with vibrant visuals which brought new
life to the classic bomb-dropping
gameplay, making it one of the most
enjoyable, albeit forgotten, platformers
on the system. As with most games of its
kind, the story is pretty bare bones and
sees Bomber Man having to retrieve
several stones that was stolen by an
evil force that threatens to throw the
world into darkness. There are five of
them in total with the game being split
up into various levels that need to be
completed before defeating each boss
holding a stone. Now, the game play is
where Pocket Bomber Man is at its best
with each stage requiring strategic bomb
placement to destroy breakable blocks,
defeat enemies, and uncover power-ups
like different bomb types or speed
boosts that allows you to approach the
game in several ways. The level design
is what really helps this range of
mechanics shine, as well as some that
are included in the environment itself,
such as springs and ropes that see you
being able to reach higher platforms and
at times end up becoming puzzles within
themselves. They're all slowly
introduced throughout the game's levels
and ensure that the beginning is quite
forgiving for newcomers. But as you
approach the later worlds, the game
demands that you have a grip on precise
bomb placement as well as quick reflexes
to reach the end. Of course, it wouldn't
be a platformer without boss battles,
which test your mastery of each mechanic
and end up being some of the more
enjoyable moments in the game. With its
easy to pick up and play nature, nearly
30 levels to overcome, as well as a
pretty robust multiplayer mode as well,
Pocket Bomber Man delivers a great
experience that holds up quite well,
even all of these years
later. The Alien franchise has produced
its fair share of great games. May that
be more recent offerings like Isolation
or hidden gems like Infestation on the
DS. But one that has largely been
forgotten though has to be Thanos
Encounter on the Game Boy Color. And
although it may seem a bit crude by
today's standards, the gameplay is what
really helps sell this top-own shooter.
The game drops you into the boots of a
colonial marine who's sent to
investigate a distress call from a
freighter known as the Phantos, only to
find that it's been overrun by
Xenomorphs. against the overwhelming
odds you've got to fight back against
the hordes of aliens and make it out
alive across 15 different levels that
each bring a range of different
objectives to complete. May that be
rescuing survivors or finding cards to
unlock doors. The variety helps the game
from becoming stale and repetitive. And
with various different difficulty
settings to choose from as well, there's
plenty of challenge to be had. As with
any shooter, the main draw is your
choice of weapons. And with Thanos,
you're absolutely spoiled for choice. It
ends up feeling like a love letter to
Alien fans and features iconic weapons
like the pulse rifle, flamethrower,
grenade launcher, and even the power
loader to help you deal with the huge
variety of enemies that the game throws
at you. Of course, it's not perfect, and
there are a few issues with the game.
Mainly the AI, which has a tendency to
act up and cause enemies to get stuck on
scenery or behave in bizarre ways that
can make the combat feel a bit
unpolished. But if you're willing to
overlook some of its quirks, then is
definitely worth playing if you're fond
of top-own
shooters. Legend of the River King was
released for the original Game Boy in
97, and it would eventually be enhanced
for the Game Boy Color a couple of years
later and offered up a rather quirky
adventure that focuses on a young boy
trying to save his sister from a deadly
disease. The only cure lies in catching
a legendary creature known as the
Guardian Fish, which sees you searching
across the world's rivers, lakes, and
seas in hopes of one day being able to
catch it. The story unfolds like any
other RPG with you visiting a range of
different villages and interacting with
a cast of lovable NPCs that offer up
clues and trade opportunities as you
work towards your goal. What sets it
apart from other RPGs on the Game Boy
though is that rather than battles being
at the center of the gameplay, fishing
is the main draw and your means to
advance throughout the game. There are
just over 40 different fish to catch,
requiring specific bait, lurs, and rods,
which adds a decent amount of strategy
to the otherwise simple mechanics that
the game employs. It creates a nice loop
of experimentation as each catch can be
traded for gold, which can then be spent
on new equipment to increase your
chances of scoring larger fish. Now, the
world is split up into four different
areas that are filled with markets and
areas to explore and cast your line. But
what ends up being an interesting twist
is that predators will attack you to try
and steal your catch. These take the
form of turn-based battles and end up
being an unexpected but welcome addition
to the game, allowing you to slowly
level up and stand your ground. This
blend of fishing, trading, and combat is
at the center of what The River King is
all about, and it creates an addictive
and rewarding experience that is bound
to keep you hooked.
[Music]
As a huge fan of retro RPGs, I've
recently been diving into some of the
more obscure classics, and Last Bible 2
has quickly become one of my favorites.
While it never saw a release here in the
West, fans have made it easily
accessible with a translation that makes
it easier than ever to enjoy for those
outside of Japan. Now, what struck me
about the game is its surprisingly rich
story that follows a young boy named
Yuri who was raised in the Demon
Kingdom, a place where humans and
monsters coexist. And as the boy, you're
tasked with preventing the resurrection
of a godly power known as Grius that's
said to bring nothing but chaos to the
world. You slowly begin to realize that
Yuri is a lot more important than the
early story beats let on and soon gives
way to plenty of twists and turns
that'll keep you invested throughout the
game's runtime. As with any other RPG,
the gameplay is just as important as the
story. And Last Bible 2 manages to
deliver in this department as well.
You'll find yourself exploring the
kingdom and coming into contact with a
range of different NPCs, many of which
become your allies and join you in the
fight. At the center of the adventure,
though, is the battle system that feels
like a blend of Dragon Quest and Pokmon
thanks to its monster recruitment and
fusion mechanics, a hallmark of the
Magame Tensei series. When you encounter
an enemy, you're not limited to fighting
it, but actually being able to negotiate
with the goal being for it to hopefully
join your ranks. By fusing these
monsters together, you can even create
entirely new beasts that adds a huge
layer of experimentation to the game, as
well as a lot of depth to the abilities
of your monsters during each fight. So
whether you're tracking down a physical
copy or looking for something new to
play via emulation, Last Bible 2 is an
incredible journey that's well worth
undertaking. Well, that does it for
another video. Keep an eye out for the
next part as that will be coming up
soon. So don't forget to subscribe and
hit that bell to get notified about new
videos. You can follow me on all of the
socials which are linked below to stay
up to date and also join my growing
community on Discord to meet many
like-minded gamers to continue the
conversation with. I'd like to give a
special shout out to my Patreon
supporters. Rhino, Skill, Jim, Shuen,
Richard, Amy, Daniel, Dio, Omar,
Strider, Pierre, Carl, Awesome, Jacket,
Dude, Maximus, Scott, Alfred, Terry,
Ryan, Alex, Gamecube, Galaxy, Curse,
Salery Man, Fake, and Patty J for their
continued support that helps make these
videos possible. If you're interested in
joining the Discord or supporting the
channel through Patreon, you'll find all
of these links down below. As always,
thanks for taking the time to check the
video out. I'll catch you next time.
[Music]